Hello.
And you also got two people in this video this ad our first NPC.
Enter Spike man.
If right now you've got a Metallica song stuck in your head.
You're welcome.
So we're gonna have a very simple NPC and it's gonna be so simple that it's not just gonna react to
seeing money there's gonna be no A.I. component.
This is really going to be a moving hazard.
Spike man is going to move left.
Pause.
Move right and Bunny is gonna try not to get hit by it.
Okay so let's get back into gotto.
I am going to create a brand new scene and it's gonna be a 2D scene which we're going to call Spider-Man.
So I want to rename my noted to spike man.
Let's move so we can see 0 0 because that's where Spike is going to show.
All right Spike man is actually going to be an area 2D.
So let's put an area 2D in and we need to see what this area is.
So that's at a child which can be an animated sprite.
Okay so we have an animated sprite but we don't have any frames for it easy enough on the frames where
it is empty.
When I click on it and your new Sprite frames we've done this before with money so it should be quite
familiar.
Click on sprite frames and I'm going to rename the default one to stand we go into the graphics folder
you'll see in the enemies we've got Spike man.
So I'm not gonna use spike man jump for this one I'm still standing here.
Good.
So that is going to give us the beginnings of our Spike man.
Now let's put in simple collision shape.
So under area 2D at a new child that's going to be a collision shape not going away about collision
polygon can be collision shape 2D.
And let's give that a simple capsule shape and I'm going to use the extents to get this roughly the
right size.
Not gonna worry too much about being pixel perfect.
This isn't super meat boy that should be fine if I hide that there one more thing we want is an animation
place on the charity.
I'm going to add an animation player.
And the reason we want this is we want to change the animation right so right now we have the stand
animation let's put a new one in.
So on the animated sprite new animation I want to call this walk I was going to hold control and click
on a walk one and walk to and then drag them over.
That's not going to show straightaway so it's changed now to come back and that should be there.
Well it's not doing things.
So it's playing.
There he goes.
Okay.
So that actually is pretty good.
The speed is good and I can switch back to stand.
Yeah okay.
So we need to make sure that this is playing.
Otherwise guy guys have set it playing in script but looking pretty good.
Okay so how is this gonna work.
Well let's go to animation player and make a new animation.
I'm going to call this spike man.
First is going to happen is this animation is going to auto play.
So this little arrow down here and it's going to loop which is this looping icon and this animation
is not only one second I think six seconds is good.
So what I want to do is I want to go left for one second.
Wait for one second.
Go right for two seconds.
Why.
Because I have to go back to the zero position and the same is that way and then wait.
So that's at a track.
So we could add the track end by pressing our track but I'm going to go to Area 2D all these keys in
our position because we've we've got the animation up transform and let's set a key right here.
Do you want to create new track.
Yes I do.
Okay.
So one second in you know what let's set up snaps to one second minimize any kind of problems and
is that good let's press play.
I think that's looking pretty good.
We can change the values later.
OK.
So you'll notice it is very slowly drifting.
Why.
Because we're looping so the six seconds it has to be the same thing as zero.
Well that's no good.
So let's go back to the two second mark and set this to minus 100.
And so the key here this line here tells us the value is the same.
So go there.
Wait.
Slowly move over.
OK.
So here we should be zero here.
We should be at positive 100.
Well let's put that in 100 and one second later should be 100 again OK.
That should give us a perfect waiting time
looking pretty smooth.
Well we don't have is the animated sprite.
Easy enough.
We're going to add that to the key.
So animated sprite you're going to do walk and I need to add you to the frame.
OK.
So let's add the track property track animated Sprite and I want animation.
That's the one I want.
Great.
So insert key and you should be on book here.
The one second Mark.
I'm going to insert another key click on it and to stand.
Now the two second mark I'm going to select this key here.
The one that tells it to walk and I'm going to right click on it to duplicate key.
And here we now have a walk key and then four seconds do the exact same thing.
I'm gonna select this key here.
It's a stand I want to do duplicate and it'll duplicate it where the play Mark is so final one at five
seconds.
I want to duplicate the work key so it's going to go back to my will key.
Select it and then right click on it to do duplicate.
I'll get it see how that looks
almost perfect nice say almost perfect because Spike man is moonwalking here and I want Spike man walking.
So one more track I'm going to add.
So let's get to I mean a sprite easy flip H right.
So when that's on we'll be walking the right way.
So is enough animation player at track properly track animated sprite that's good.
And I won't flip H.
Great.
And so this will meet nicer symbols so let's just check.
At this point I want to make sure your flip Solis insert a key here and set it to true.
So press play and then when we get to two seconds we need to set it to false so insert new key.
Make sure we get the correct one selected.
So click on two seconds and let's set that false
looking good and the final thing we need to make sure that five seconds we have this key duplicated
so click on it to duplicate the key and that's good.
Okay.
So now let's see how it looks.
That is looking pretty good.
Now I happen to know that a hundred pixels is gonna fit nicely on this large platform so I'm happy with
that.
I'm going to save the scene and let's make a brand new folder.
Nicholas end pieces and Spike man not TSM.
Great.
Now Spike man is gonna need a script and what I'm actually going to do is use doo doo doo doo has his
dot.
However if I open has a slot G.D. this extends area to me that means it is gonna have to be on an area
to denote that's not a problem on area 2D.
I'm just gonna go down to script at the bottom is down our press load and then go fight hazards.
I don't have to do it this way.
I could have just added a new script and do the load menu but this is a different way can do before
we play Spike man.
One more thing we need to do we need to make sure the collisions are correct.
The mosque is going to have to be player and nothing else because the hazard script that we're using
right now is going to detect anybody that can enter it.
The only body that can enter it should be the player.
That's not so bad.
So let's make sure the landing is correct.
So first off mask you're on plant only fantastic layer.
We don't put NBC on hazards and pieces are actually hazards so that works nicely.
So you're a hazard you can interact with players.
Great.
Let's check this works.
Brand new note does a simple note at the top kill you.
NBC is an instance in Spike man.
Spike man.
There you go.
Put myself on move and let's move you up the top here.
Zoom in.
Okay.
Now here's the center.
We've actually placed you here.
Why.
Well it's going to spike man.
Go into the animation player look more of a play marker.
I need to play market to be at zero.
It is not a zero say that it's going to look weird.
Now I can see where the actual Spike meant it.
Surplus place you right here.
So let's see if this works.
Press play and oh it's not going to.
I've just realized why.
That's fine.
Let's test it.
Is moving left and right.
It's great.
But when I touch him nothing's gonna happen.
Why I didn't connect the signal.
See what I've done is I've put the script on so go over here on Spike top body entered the copy on Spike
top body entered.
Copy that.
And now let's connect you so area to be on body entered.
Connect to your self and right here is his method in node.
I'm just gonna paste over that.
Okay.
So now it should actually be a hazard.
Look at that we have a dangerous spike right.
Which brings me to the challenge now.
Quite an easy challenge this time.
I'd like you to add some spike meant to your level.
Do remember keep it challenging but keep it fair.
Right.
It should be playable but difficult is fine.
So I pulled the video put some spike metal on the level when you're happy.
Come on back and I'll do the same
and welcome back.
Okay let's play some spike man.
So 2D.
Great.
And I'm gonna do some duplicating make sure I've got my mov mode selected and let's duplicate control
D.
I'll put you here.
I think that's a sneaky place to put one because he's not going to interact with a jump pad.
He isn't gonna interact with money and I feel like one more maybe over here.
What are you thinking along.
Yeah let's do that.
What about right here.
Looking good.
I don't have any coins over here I can fix it on time but let's press play and see how that plays whoops.
I'm already so bad at my game.
Let's get some more coins.
Oh well that didn't work did it.
But look at that.
We have some our first Ed pieces.
So in this video we've created a simple NPC and we've used animation player to control that NPC.
We've looked at how these animation plans to do things like change animation sprites change true false
values and flip H and generally move the character around to be awesome.
So how's your level looking.
Do you want to share what you've got so far using lots of different pieces.
Are you using custom assets.
Don't forget.
Make this game your own.
I really want to see what guys can come up with.
Meanwhile excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.